>> Speaker 1: What blogs or
resources do you tend to rely on to
help grow in your own understanding and
be exposed to new ideas and developing
backend architectures for your use cases?
>> Erik: So for me I've been around
the bush a little while now, so
that I have a good understanding
of a lot of the simple designs and
principles that we've talked about.
But when I really like to be challenged,
I look for people who are bigger than me
places that I see and I'm like,
wow, how are they doing that?
Like, how are they doing this?
Again, a couple of the stuff that I
included in this presentation and
in this course were things like
the Netflix engineering blog.
The Amazon documentation,
trying to find resources from
reputable sources that you trust.
To be honest,
there's a lot of people on the internet,
a lot of people on Twitter who are making
and voicing their own opinions, but
that doesn't mean they actually
know what they're talking about.
And so it's really about
finding people that you trust,
that you believe in things that
it's kind of like a mentorship.
You wanna find people that are doing what
you wanna do and then learn from them.
And that can even be people on Twitter,
like myself or
other content creators that are already
in the industry and doing that.
But just be careful, I think you wanna
find the content that relates to you
the most and then lean into that and until
you're ready to move on to the next thing.
But for me, it's a lot of also
experimentation, I'll find something
that somebody is doing and I'll be like,
I'm gonna try that myself.
And a lot of the learning I do today is
really through my own process of just
trying something that I'm
seeing somebody else will do.
For example, I decided to make
Quirk V2 entirely serverless.
That was a choice I made because
I wanted to challenge myself and
learn as much as I could about this
brand new technology that's growing.
Did I have to make Quirk V2 serverless?
No, I didn't at all, as a matter of
fact [L.AUGH] here, I'll show you,
this is Quirk V2 once it loads, so
you wanna talk about complicated systems.
That's Quirk V2 system and believe it or
not, it's actually a multitude of API
gateways that all intercommunicate with
each other, some internal, some external.
And this is a really good
learning exercise for me, right?
We have public API gateways
that use lambdas here,
let me zoom in a little bit here.
So we have our public API gateway
which is all of our events API,
how we process all of our events
coming from third parties.
We then have our portal API gateway,
which is all of our API lambdas that
process everything for the front end.
But then we needed to have other API
gateways that serve these, right?
Like the events API and
the portal API need to access
AI features and functionality.
And so we built a serverless API
gateway internally for that and
that makes it so that it feels like a
normal HTTP server at the end of the day,
but it's really serverless,
powered by serverless.
And then, again, going back to the discord
bot and YouTube, we still have
the requirement of things like servers and
microservices and whatnot.
And so we couple in a ECS and so
we've got a little ECS cluster over here.
And so yeah, like I really do try and
challenge myself as much as I
possibly can,
we've got our persistence tier down here.
But the main point of why I'm showing
you this is is that even though
this design itself is kind of crazy,
it's logically separated into solving
the problems that we wanna solve.
That will never change, so
I really encourage you guys to go out and
experiment and try these things yourself.
Don't take it just my word for
truth, go and try it yourself and
that's really how I do
a lot of my learning today.
Well, first off, thank you guys for
sticking through this, I appreciate it.
I hope it was informative and
hopefully empowers you and
inspires you to go build these
type of architectures yourself.
Remember, there's an importance
that I wanna mention, and
the first one is systematic planning,
planning is important, right?
Effective architecture design is
foundational to project success,
emphasize the necessity
of thorough planning.
And understanding of both
stakeholder needs and
technological capabilities before
initiating development, right?
Technology does not out beat the company
business, they work together,
that's what again has made these
companies hugely successful, right?
This ensures alignment with
business objectives and
user requirements, optimizing both
functionality and efficiency.
The next one, flexibility and
scaling are key, right?
In the ever-evolving landscape of
technology and business, designing
architecture with flexibility and
scalability at its core is crucial, right?
Now, we might not be talking about,
hey, right off the box,
I wanna support a million customers or
a million requests.
But what we are saying is consider
the adaption of what your
company's growth is gonna be.
If you think a year from now, you're gonna
have a really hard to market strategy, and
you're gonna have a thousand users
be prepared for that, right?
The monolith is something great
to start with, but again,
maybe slowly start decoupling those
components, making them into services,
or other type of architectures.
And making it so that when you're ready,
you can move fast,
that is also what makes a company
profitable fast, you move quick.
These allow a system to adapt
to changes in user demand and
technological advancements without
requiring complete redesigns,
thereby saving time, resources,
and facilitating sustained growth.
And the final one, and I think this is
hopefully the one I want you guys to walk
away with the most, this is all
continuous learning and adaption.
There's no one solution,
there's no one person does it best and
this is the best way to do it.
If you wanna be a good engineer,
explore it yourself, go out and
learn these things yourself, come back
to the table with your own observations.
And that's something that I implore
everyone watching this course to do.
Yes, you can take recommendations
from another company, but
at the end of the day,
that's all they are, recommendations.
The way that you have to solve
the problem is entirely up
to the problem that you have to solve.
This approach will not only
keep your skills relevant, but
also enable you to design systems that are
robust, adaptable, and forward thinking.
And with that, thank you for
watching, I appreciate it.
Remember again, if you're curious about
any of the stuff I do on the interwebs,
check out the engineering
blog Altf4.blog.
Watch me on twitch, I Stream Thursdays,
Fridays, and Saturdays,
my stream agenda might
change from this course.
So I do stream weekdays and weekends,
be sure to follow me on Twitter as well as
check out the YouTube, but thank you very
much and I hope you enjoyed the course.
>> Students: [APPLAUSE]